Storing Expectations in Firestore
=================================

Gold Expectations are essentially a map of (Grouping, Digest) to Label where Grouping is
currently TestName (but could be a combination of TestName + ColorSpace or something
more complex), Digest is the md5 hash of an image's content, and Label is Positive, Negative,
or Untriaged (default).

There is the idea of the MasterExpectations, which is the Expectations belonging to the
git branch "master". Additionally, there can be smaller CLExpectations that belong
to a ChangeList (CL) and stay in a separate partition from the MasterExpectations until the
CL lands. These CLExpectations are the "delta" that would be applied to the MasterExpectations.

We'd like to be able to do the following:

  - Store and retrieve Expectations (both MasterExpectations and CLExpectations).
  - Update the Label for a (Grouping, Digest).
  - Keep an audit record of what user updated the Label for a given (Grouping, Digest).
  - Undo a previous change.
  - Support Gerrit CLs and GitHub PullRequests (PRs)

Schema
------

In the spreadsheet metaphor, Firestore Collections are _tables_ and Documents
are the _rows_, with the fields of the Documents being the columns.

Like all other projects, we will use the firestore.NewClient to create a top level
"gold" Collection with a parent Document for this instance (e.g. "skia-prod", "flutter", etc).
Underneath that parent Document, we have a Collection of partition Documents (e.g. "master",
"gerrit_1234"). These partition documents have three Collections: `entries`, `triage_records`,
and `triage_changes`. This arrangement allows us to more easily keep data separate between
the partitions; for example, we don't have to have a Where(partition, "==", "foo") clause on all
of our queries.

In the `entries` Collection, we will store many `expectationEntry` Documents with
the following schema:

	Grouping       string    # starting as the TestName
	Digest         string
	Updated        time.Time
	LastUsed       time.Time # used to clean up unused expectations.
	Ranges         []triageRange # stores Label in a future-proof way. See below.
	NeedsGC        boolean # used to cleanup unused expectations.

The `expectationEntry` will have an ID of `[grouping]|[digest]`, allowing updates to not require
doing a search with a double Where().

The `triage_records` Collection will have `triageRecords` Documents, which use an autogenerated ID:

	UserName     string
	TS           time.Time
	Committed    bool      # if writing has completed (e.g. large triage)
	Changes      int       # how many records match in triage_changes Collection

The `triage_changes` Collection will have `expectationChange` Documents:

	RecordID       string # From the triage_records table
	Grouping       string
	Digest         string
	LabelBefore    int
	AffectedRange  triageRange

We split the triage data into two tables to account for the fact that bulk triages can sometimes be
across thousands of groups/digests, which would surpass the 10Mb firestore limit per Document.

Indexing
--------
Firebase has pretty generous indexing limits, so we should be fine with the default single-field
indexes.

Usage
-----

As an option, the expectations can be kept in RAM (and up-to-date) through use of Firestore's
query snapshots. This is done with the Initialize() function.

For performance, we shard fetching the expectations based on digest, since that data
is essentially random and evenly distributed.

When the tryjob monitor notes that a CL has landed, it can fetch the given CLExpectations and
apply them to the master branch.

To undo, we can query the original change by id (from the `triage_records` Collection)
and update the affected range with the LabelBefore if the current set of ranges exactly contains
the AffectedRange.

To cleanup old expectations, a process calls UpdateLastUsed, which updates the `last_used` field.
That same process then calls MarkUnusedEntriesForGC, which sets the `NeedsGC` field to true for all
`expectationEntry` documents which have a `last_used` and `updated` field before the given time.
These are then deleted with a call to GarbageCollect().

Future Changes
--------------

As of Mar 2020, there is consideration for Chrome's Web Tests to use Gold. One requirement is that
Gold's expectations apply only sometimes, not always. Thus, we store ranges, which would allow that
to happen. For now, the ranges are just 1 range from 0 to MaxInt, so effectively rangeless, as
it was before.