Monitoring (Grains, Prober and Alert Server)
============================================

The monitoring server runs InfluxDB to accept and manage timeseries data and
uses Grafana to construct dashboards for that data. InfluxDB has a module to
make it compatible with Graphite/Carbon, which we used to use to store
timeseries data before InfluxDB. Our servers still upload metrics using this
Graphite/Carbon API, so you'll see mentions of Graphite or Carbon here and
there.

In addition this server also hosts the prober, which monitors the uptime
of our servers and pumps the results of those probes into InfluxDB.

Alert Server periodically queries InfluxDB and generates alerts based on rules
defined in monitoring/alerts.cfg.

Logs for all applications are served from skiamonitor.com:10115 which is
restricted to internal IPs only.

Full Server Setup
=================

Do once
-------

    $ ./vm_create_instance.sh
    $ ./vm_setup_instance.sh

Make sure to 'set daemon 2' in /etc/monit/monitrc so that monit
runs every 2 seconds.

Make sure to log in InfluxDB at port 10117 and create the 'graphite' and
'grafana' databases. Username and Password should also be set according to
valentine.

Once that is done then set the Metadata for the instance using
cloud.google.com/console, see below:

### Prober ###
The prober requres one piece of metadata, the API Key for making requests
to the project hosting API. They API Key value can be found here:

https://console.developers.google.com/project/31977622648/apiui/credential

Set that as the value for the metadata key:

    apikey

### Grains ###

Grains is the Grafana/InfluxDB proxy and needs the following metadata values
set:

    cookiesalt
    client_id
    client_secret
    influxdb_name
    influxdb_password

The client_id and client_secret come from here:

    https://console.developers.google.com/project/31977622648/apiui/credential

Look for the Client ID that has a Redirect URI for skiamonitor.com.

For 'cookiesalt' and the influx db values search for 'skiamonitor' in valentine.

### AlertServer ###
AlertServer periodically queries InfluxDB and generates alerts based on rules
in the alerts.cfg file. It needs the following metadata values:

    cookiesalt
    client_id
    client_secret
    influxdb_name
    influxdb_password
    gmail_clientid
    gmail_clientsecret
    gmail_cached_token

The client_id and client_secret come from here:

    https://console.developers.google.com/project/31977622648/apiui/credential

Look for the Client ID that has a Redirect URI for skiamonitor.com.

For 'cookiesalt' and the influx db values search for 'skiamonitor' in valentine.

The gmail_clientid and gmail_clientsecret come from here:

    https://console.developers.google.com/project/31977622648/apiui/credential

Look for the section titled, "Client ID for native application."

The gmail_cached_token can be generated by running the server and clicking the
authorization link while signed in as skia.buildbots@gmail.com

Do on update
------------

    $ ./vm_push_update.sh

Notes
-----
To SSH into the instance:

    gcutil --project=google.com:skia-buildbots ssh --ssh_user=default skia-monitoring

If you need to modify the constants for the vm_XXX.sh scripts they are
specified in vm_config.sh.
